
===== PAGE 1 =====
R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E
Deep learning-based pigment analysis model trained with
optical approach and ground truth assistance
Geunho Jung
|
Semin Kim
|
Jongha Lee
|
Sangwook Yoo
AI R&D Center, Lululab Inc., Seoul,
Republic of Korea
Correspondence
Geunho Jung, AI R&D Center, Lululab
Inc., Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Email: gh.jung@icloud.com
Funding information
NIPA
Abstract
This study introduces an integrated training
method combining the optical approach
with ground truth for skin pigment analy-
sis. Deep learning is increasingly applied to
skin pigment analysis, primarily melanin
and hemoglobin. While regression analysis is a widely used training method to
predict ground truth-like outputs, the input image resolution is restricted by com-
putational resources. The optical approach-based regression method can alleviate
this problem, but compromises performance. We propose a strategy to overcome
the limitation of image resolution while preserving performance by incorporating
ground truth within the optical approach-based learning structure. The proposed
model decomposes skin images into melanin, hemoglobin, and shading maps,
reconstructing them by solving the forward problem with reference to the ground
truth for pigments. Evaluation against the VISIA system, a professional diagnostic
equipment, yields correlation coefficients of 0.978 for melanin and 0.975 for
hemoglobin. Furthermore, our model can produce
pigment-modified
images for applications like simulating treatment effects.
K E Y W O R D S
deep learning, diffuse Optics, skin analysis, skin pigment
1
|
INTRODUCTION
The coloration of human skin is influenced by the pres-
ence of melanin and hemoglobin, which are prominent
chromophores in the visible wavelength range. Melanin
absorbs light across the entire spectrum with an expo-
nential decrease from blue to red, contributing to the
observed darkness and yellowish color [1]. Conversely,
hemoglobin significantly absorbs green light, leading
to the generation of a complementary red color [2].
Quantifying melanin and hemoglobin concentrations
through distribution maps offers an accurate method to
assess dermatological conditions, such as erythema and
hyperpigmentation [3].
Spectral reflectance techniques are commonly used
to measure skin melanin and hemoglobin concentra-
tions [4]. Clinical devices either analyze the reflectance
ratios at different wavelengths to determine melanin and
hemoglobin indices [5, 6] or infer their concentrations
from the absorption spectrum through methods like
diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) [7]. These chromo-
phore analysis techniques can be applied to image pixels,
expanding the analysis from point measurement to
spatial distribution. Whole optical-based image proces-
sing approaches are prevalent in commercial equipment
and efficient enough for clinical use [8, 9], but most analysis
tools are restricted to the manufacturer's imaging equip-
ment, limiting versatility. The independent component
Received: 15 June 2023
Revised: 14 August 2023
Accepted: 15 August 2023
DOI: 10.1002/jbio.202300231
J. Biophotonics. 2023;16:e202300231.
www.biophotonics-journal.org
© 2023 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
1 of 12
https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.202300231

===== PAGE 2 =====
analysis (ICA), which is one of the representative methods,
requires significant pigment concentration variation within
the image to distinguish color components [10]. Therefore,
the process may involve manually sliding the window to
identify analyzable regions within the image. Additionally,
image analysis requires substantial computational time due
to repetitive calculations such as least-square fitting [11] or
ICA performed on all pixels.
Deep learning-based approaches have recently gained
popularity in skin pigment analysis, especially in the seg-
mentation
of
erythema
and
hyperpigmented
areas
[12–14]. Regression analysis is a commonly used tech-
nique that a neural network architecture learns the rela-
tionship between input images and ground truths to
predict desired outputs. However, this method requires
the preparation of ground truth corresponding to the
training dataset and faces limitations when applied to
high-resolution images due to high memory require-
ments, being computationally expensive, and the rela-
tively
small
receptive
field
of
convolutional
filters
compared to the image resolution. To alleviate these
restrictions, our previous research applied the optical
approach to train a pigment analysis model, providing an
alternative to preparing ground truth for regression anal-
ysis [15]. This model decomposes skin images into mela-
nin, hemoglobin, specular, and shading maps, after
which the forward problem is solved to create skin
images. For clarity in terminology, we use the term
“reconstructed image” for the theoretically created skin
image based on the provided pigments and geometric
conditions (represented as output maps), while the full-
sized skin image employed for analysis is denoted to as
the “input image” throughout this study. The model is
trained to minimize the discrepancy between the input
image and the reconstructed image, with the ultimate
goal of generating accurate pigment maps that resemble
actual skin conditions. Although regression analysis
methods that use optical theory to substitute for ground
truth achieve reasonable results and can analyze images
at a higher resolution than the model's input size, their
performance is not as good as when directly using ground
truth.
In this study, we propose an integrated training
method that combines the optical approach with ground
truth for pigment analysis. This method adopts the learn-
ing structure of the optical approach while incorporating
ground truth for pigments to simplify the learning
process. We evaluate the performance of our integrated
training method in comparison to regression analysis
methods: one using ground truth and the other employ-
ing the optical approach to substitute for preparing
ground truth. By leveraging the strengths of separate
approaches, the integrated training method can analyze
higher resolution images beyond the input size limitation,
achieve performance comparable to regression analy-
sis, and generate pigment-modified images for various
applications.
2
|
MATERIALS AND METHODS
The training and inference frameworks for the pigment
analysis model is described in Figure 1. To clearly distin-
guish among the training frameworks for regression anal-
ysis, we use the term “simple regression network” for the
model trained using prepared ground truth, “optical
approach-based regression network” for the model utiliz-
ing the optical approach as a substitute for preparing
ground truth, and “integrated regression network” for
the model that combines the optical approach with
ground truth, incorporating ground truth within the optical
approach-based learning structure. Similarly, the training
methods for each network are sequentially referred to as
“simple regression method,” “optical approach-based
regression method,” and “integrated regression method.
These terms will be consistently used in the subsequent
sections.
2.1
|
Model architecture
Our model is based on the ResUNet++ architecture
(Figure 2), which combines residual blocks, squeeze and exci-
tation blocks, astrous spatial pyramid pooling (ASPP), and
attention blocks, all integrated into the UNet structure. Previ-
ous studies have demonstrated that the ResUNet++ architec-
ture outperforms both UNet and ResUNet architectures [16].
To optimize memory utilization, we have adapted the
architecture
by
halving
the
number
of
channels.
The modified version serves as the network architecture
for the pigment analysis model across all three training
methods, as well as for the skin segmentation model.
2.2
|
Optical approach
In our previous research, we utilized skin decomposition
principles from computer vision [17] to train a pigment
analysis model [15]. This model, based on a UNet struc-
ture, decomposes skin regions into four components:
melanin,
hemoglobin,
shading,
and
specular
maps.
Although the model yields reasonable analysis results, it
faces training challenges from extensive exploration of
output combinations and the significant time required
for the training process stabilization. Under identical
training conditions and with the same dataset, there have
2 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 3 =====
FIGURE 1
Overview of the training and inference frameworks used in the pigment analysis model. During pre-processing, the skin
region is segmented as a binary mask, overlaid onto the input image, and subsequently divided into multiple patches. The pigment analysis
model takes a patch of a cross-polarized image as input and produces melanin and hemoglobin maps. The training frameworks for three
regression networks are depicted: “simple regression network,” “optical approach-based regression network,” and “integrated regression
network.” (A) In the training frameworks of both the optical approach-based regression network (the black dotted line) and the integrated
regression network (both the black and red dotted lines), the pigment analysis model decomposes skin regions of patch images into melanin,
hemoglobin, and shading maps. The output maps are reconstructed into the skin image by solving the forward problem, with training based
on a loss function minimizing the discrepancy between the patch image and the reconstructed image. The training framework of the
integrated regression network incorporates the ground truth for pigments within the learning structure of the optical approach-based
regression network, and integrates the correlation between the ground truth and the output patches for melanin and hemoglobin into the
loss function to simplify the learning process. During inference, the output patches derived from the trained network are combined to form
melanin and hemoglobin maps for the entire skin region. (B) The simple regression network is trained to predict outputs resembling the
prepared ground truth. To analyze higher resolution images that exceed the input size limitation, the input image is divided into multiple
patches and combined, following the same approach as the integrated regression network.
JUNG ET AL.
3 of 12
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 4 =====
been instances where the loss value did not change
significantly over several hundred epochs. To alleviate
these limitations, we made modifications to the model
architecture and the training framework, as depicted by
the black dotted line in Figure 1A. We set the input type
to ideally captured cross-polarized images, which elimi-
nate the effect of specularly reflected light on the cap-
tured image, thereby excluding the specular map from
the output. This change simplifies the learning process by
reducing the number of outputs. We also employed a
more advanced architecture to enhance performance.
These modifications have resulted in improved perfor-
mance and shorter training times, making the revised
training framework and architecture more suitable for
the optical approach-based regression network used in
this study.
In this section, we describe the theoretical process of
acquiring skin images. We analyze the optical properties
of the primary factors influencing image formation from
the perspective of the light spectrum. We term this meth-
odology the “optical approach” in this study.
2.2.1
|
Pre-processing and post-processing
The procedures involved in pre-processing and post-
processing are demonstrated in Figure 1. In the pre-
processing stage, the skin region is segmented as a binary
mask and overlaid onto the input image. Then, the over-
laid image is divided into multiple patches, referred to as
the “patch image” in this study, that serve as input to the
model. In the post-processing stage, the model's output
patches are combined to create full-sized pigment maps
of the same size as the original input image.
Training the pigment analysis model using the optical
approach required us to exclude non-skin regions exhibit-
ing distinct optical properties. For this purpose, we
employed a skin segmentation model based on the
ResUNet++ architecture. This model produced a binary
mask that effectively masked non-skin regions such as
background, hair, eyebrows, eyelashes, eyes, nostrils, and
mouth. We trained the skin segmentation model on a
dataset comprising 2100 images, combining both cross-
polarized and normal skin images with a resolution of
640  480 pixels. The test set included 232 images of both
types. The model successfully segmented two classes
(skin and non-skin) and achieved a complete inter-
section over union (CIoU) [18] score of 0.961.
To overcome the input image resolution constraints
imposed by computing resources, we adopted a patch-based
strategy. This strategy involves dividing the input image
into several patches and combining the output patches,
assuming consistent lighting and camera conditions across
FIGURE 2
The architecture of the ResUNet++ model
combines the ResNet and UNet structures. The model
features a stem block and three sets of squeeze and excitation
blocks (SE) and encoder blocks. The astrous spatial pyramid
pooling (ASPP) module is located in the bottleneck,
followed by three decoder blocks. Both the encoder and
decoder blocks consist of two repetitions of batch
normalization and ReLU activation (BN&ReLU) and
convolution layers (Conv2D).
4 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 5 =====
the entire image. Each patch includes overlapping areas
with adjacent ones to manage the issue of visible boundary
lines between patches. In the overlapping areas, weighted
blending is applied with opposite gradients. As the training
process is performed on individual patches instead of the
combined image, the training dataset does not include the
overlapping area. For training purposes, images are divided
into patches of size 310  310 pixels and are randomly
cropped to 256  256 pixels for augmentation, which
matches the model's input size. For inference, images are
divided into patches of size 256  256 pixels, which include
a 15-pixel overlapping area. To restore the linear character-
istics of images for accurate analysis, the color space of the
input patch image is converted from standard RGB (sRGB)
to linear RGB using inverse gamma correction.
2.2.2
|
Image formation
The inverse problem approach of determining the optical
properties of skin from measured reflected light is highly
ill-posed, due to the skin's diffusive property [19]. In con-
trast, we trained our model using a forward problem
approach that derives the spectrum of the reflected light
from the given pigment conditions, which are the model's
outputs. This approach eliminates the need for iterative
calculations as the forward problem has a unique
solution. Furthermore, it does not require ground truth
data for pigments and can be applied to various image
acquisition
systems,
provided
that
a
corresponding
system's training dataset is available.
The skin image formation process is based on a spec-
tral approach, as shown in Figure 3. When the illumi-
nated light encounters the boundary between the skin
and air, part of the illuminated light undergoes specular
reflection due to the difference in refractive index, while
the remaining light refracts into the skin layers. Inside
the skin, the refracted light is absorbed and scattered
before being reflected back out. Both the specularly
reflected light and diffusely reflected light, detected by
the camera, contribute to skin image formation. Profes-
sional skin diagnostic equipment used for measuring
pigment regions [8, 20] selectively captures the diffusely
reflected light as a cross-polarized image, providing
enhanced features of concentrated melanin and hemoglo-
bin areas. To incorporate this into our pigment analysis
model, we restricted the input type to cross-polarized
images
and
minimized
the
influence
of
specularly
reflected light from the image formation process and the
output maps. This adaptation aims to simplify the learn-
ing process by reducing the number of outputs.
Based on the presence of chromophores, the skin
layers are classified into the epidermis layer with absorp-
tion dominated by melanin and the dermis layer with
absorption dominated by hemoglobin. In terms of scatter-
ing properties, the epidermis has a negligible effect due
to its small thickness, while the dermis, composed of
elastin and collagen fibers, significantly contributes to
FIGURE 3
The skin image formation process initiates with incident light interacting with the skin. The reflected light captured by the
camera sensor generates a skin image. This process involves the multiplication of the spectral power distribution of the light source, the
skin's spectral reflectance, and the quantum efficiency of the camera sensor. The skin reflectance spectrum is approximated by optically
modeling the skin layers, which factors in the absorption of chromophores and overall scattering. The resultant image is initially produced
in a camera-specific RGB color space and is subsequently converted to the sRGB color space.
JUNG ET AL.
5 of 12
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 6 =====
scattering and is considered the scattering-dominant
layer [5].
The absorption and reduced scattering coefficients are
defined by the following equations [21]:
μa λ
ð Þ ¼ ΣiV iεi λ
ð ÞCi
ð1Þ
μ0
s λ
ð Þ ¼ a f Ray
λ
λ0

4
þ 1f Ray


λ
λ0

bMie
 
!
ð2Þ
Here, the absorption coefficient μa λ
ð Þ is calculated as
the sum of the product of the volume fraction Vi, the
extinction coefficient εi, and the concentration Ci of the
chromophores i in melanin and hemoglobin. The scatter-
ing
component
comprises
the
Rayleigh
and
Mie
scattering terms, which depend on the scattering ampli-
tude a, the scattering power b, and the fraction of the
Rayleigh scattering events f Ray. In this study, the wave-
length λ is defined as the visible range from λmin ¼ 450
nm to λmax ¼ 750 nm.
The skin reflectance is determined using a simplified
form of the Kubelka-Munk theory, which assumes that
the majority of diffusely reflected light originates from
the dermis layer. The equation is as follows [22]:
R λ
ð Þ ¼ Tepidermis λ
ð Þ2Rdermis λ
ð Þ
ð3Þ
Here, the skin reflectance R λ
ð Þ consists of the fraction
of the transmitted light through the epidermis layer
Tepidermis λ
ð Þ and that of reflected light from the dermis
layer Rdermis λ
ð Þ. Previous studies [17, 23] have utilized
skin reflectance data derived using the Kubelka-Munk
theory, considering the volume fractions of melanin
(ranging from 1.3% to 43%) and hemoglobin (from 2% to
7%) [24, 25] along with their corresponding absorption
spectra [26]. In this study, we adopt the same skin reflec-
tance data for accurate analysis.
The skin image is formed and converted using the
following equations:
Im ¼
Zλmax
λmin
L λ
ð Þ R λ
ð ÞMshading


Cmdλ
ð4Þ
Irgb ¼ Mxyztorgb Mcamtoxyz  Mwb Icam
ð
Þ
ð5Þ
Here, the generated image Im is obtained by integrat-
ing the spectral power distribution (SPD) of the light
source L λ
ð Þ, the skin reflectance R λ
ð Þ, the shading map
Mshading, and the quantum efficiency of the camera sensor
Cm over the wavelength range from λmin ¼ 450 nm to
λmax ¼ 750 nm for each channel m in r, g, and b. The
resulting image Icam ¼ Ir,Ig,Ib

	
is initially in the device-
dependent color space. It is then sequentially converted to
the XYZ color space, which is a standardized color repre-
sentation [27], and further transformed to the RGB color
space using the multiplication of the corresponding conver-
sion matrices M. Furthermore, when saving the inferred
reconstructed image, we convert the image's color space
from RGB to sRGB using a gamma correction.
2.2.3
|
Loss function
The model is trained to minimize the discrepancy
between the patch image and the reconstructed image,
which is derived from the output maps. Under identical
acquisition conditions (using the same camera and light
source), a higher similarity between the input and recon-
structed image suggests that the model has successfully
learned to create output maps which closely resemble the
pigment distributions of the input image. The loss func-
tion used is the mean squared error (MSE) during train-
ing and the peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) during the
evaluation process.
2.3
|
Integrated regression network
2.3.1
|
Training method
The optical approach-based regression method offers
analysis results comparable to those from professional
skin diagnostic equipment, which is demonstrated in
Section 3 and our previous research [15]. Despite the
capabilities of this approach, it does have certain limita-
tions. Throughout the training process, the loss function
evaluates only the reconstructed image. This image is
influenced by all outputs, including melanin, hemoglo-
bin, and shading maps, making it difficult to verify the
accurate training of individual outputs. For example,
incorrect combinations of outputs can possibly generate
colors resembling the patch image. Additionally, evalua-
tions emphasizing representative values for the entire
patch image could overlook the localized inaccuracies.
To overcome these limitations, we introduce an inte-
grated regression method. This technique combines the
learning structure of the optical approach with ground
truth data for pigments, as shown in Figure 1A. While
the optical approach's primary strength lies in its ability
to train without the need for ground truth, the integrated
regression method incorporates ground truth into the
training process to enhance performance. Differing from
simple regression method, this method aims to support to
6 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 7 =====
correctly generate pigment maps while maintaining the
skin image formation process. As a result, it enhances
performance while retaining the benefits of the optical
approach, such as combining output patches without
occurrence of boundary lines and the generation of
pigment-modified images.
The data intended for ground truth was generated
using the VISIA system [28], a diagnostic tool prevalent
in the industry, which we explain in more detail in
Section 2.4. This system produces pigment concentration
maps, making it compatible with our model. In our previ-
ous study [15], we noted that the VISIA system demon-
strated a similar trend, but presents more accurate results.
2.3.2
|
Loss function
The loss function is defined as follows:
Ltotal ¼ Lrecon þαLpigment
ð6Þ
Lrecon ¼ 1
nΣn
i¼1 Iinput ið Þ Irecon ið Þ

2
ð7Þ
Lpigment ¼ Σk¼mel,Hb
Σn
i¼1 Mk ið Þ Mk


GTk ið Þ GTk


ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Σn
i¼1 Mk ið Þ Mk

2Σn
i¼1 GTk ið Þ GTk

2
q
0
B
@
1
C
A
ð8Þ
Here, the total loss function Ltotal is computed as the
weighted sum of the reconstruction loss Lrecon and the
pigment loss Lpigment. The reconstruction loss measures
the mean squared error between the input image Iinput
and the reconstructed image Irecon for i all pixels n. The
pigment loss is the summation of the Pearson correlation
coefficient for the melanin and hemoglobin components,
which involve the output maps Mk, the corresponding
ground truth GTk, and their respective mean values for
all pixels Mk and GTk.
While determining the weight value α, iterative
attempts should be made, taking into account intermedi-
ate results and dataset-specific adjustments. A high weight
value might produce results similar to the regression net-
work, potentially creating issues like differing scales in dif-
ferent patches or visible boundary lines. In this study, we
started with the weight value α of 0.00005 for the first 150
epochs, adjusting it to 0.001 for the remaining epochs.
2.4
|
Experiments
We received the dataset from the Global Medical
Research Center using the VISIA-CR acquisition system
(Canfield Scientific, Inc). A total of 88 subjects participated
in the data acquisition process, with all procedures com-
plying with national regulations and institutional policies
governing research ethics. Prior informed consent was
obtained from all participants, and the study received
approval from the authors' institutional review board. The
VISIA VAESTRO image analysis system's RBX-Brown and
RBX-Red Processing 1.0 modules [28] were utilized to
generate melanin and hemoglobin distribution maps. This
system is widely recognized as a reliable diagnostic tool for
both research and clinical applications [20, 29].
Our pigment analysis model was trained on a dataset
consisting of cross-polarized images with a resolution of
3648  5472 pixels. The training set comprised 77 subjects
(1540 patches), and the test set included 11 subjects
(220 patches). We did not separate a validation set in
order to efficiently utilize the limited dataset for training,
and
we
will
address
it
further
in
the
discussion
(Section 3). The captured image (3648  5472 pixels) was
cropped and resized to 1240  1550 pixels, subsequently
divided into 20 patches (4  5) of 310  310 pixels.
During training, these patches were randomly cropped to
256  256 pixels, and data augmentation techniques such
as horizontal flipping and rotation were applied using the
“Albumentations” library [30]. The test dataset was
cropped and resized to 979  1461 pixels, and divided
into 20 (4  5) patches, each 256  256 pixels in size.
Each patch incorporated a 15-pixel overlap to maintain
the resolution of the original image (979  1461) when
combining the patch results.
We evaluated the performance of pigment analysis
model trained with three different frameworks: the sim-
ple
regression
network,
the
optical
approach-based
regression network, and the integrated regression net-
work. These networks were trained using the same data-
set under the image acquisition conditions of the
standard illuminant “D65” and the “Canon 5D Mark II”
camera model [31]. The results were then compared with
those
from
the
VISIA
system.
Evaluation
metrics
included correlation coefficients [32] for the melanin and
hemoglobin maps, and PSNR and the structural similar-
ity index (SSIM) between the reconstructed and patch
images. Especially for the integrated regression network,
PSNR and SSIM metrics were indicative of the skin image
formation
process's
preservation
after
incorporating
ground truth into the optical approach-based learning
structure. We also conducted a qualitative comparison in
pigmented regions to identify potential discrepancies not
captured by numerical analysis. From our observations,
integrating ground truth into the optical approach
requires extra stabilization time due to the introduction
of extra constraints in the loss function. For more effi-
cient training, we initialized the integrated regression
JUNG ET AL.
7 of 12
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 8 =====
network using weights from the optical approach-based
regression network, which was trained for 250 epochs on
our training dataset.
Our models were trained on the PyTorch platform
using an RTX 3090 GPU. We implemented a batch size of
16, a learning rate of 0.002, and the Adam optimizer with
a cosine annealing scheduler. The total training time to
reach 900 epochs was as follows: 11.5 h for the simple
regression network, 17 h for the optical approach-based
regression network, and 13.5 h for the integrated regres-
sion network.
3
|
RESULTS
The performance of the three regression networks-the
simple regression network, the optical approach-based
regression
network,
and
the
integrated
regression
network-is compared to that of the VISIA system, as illus-
trated in Figure 4. The networks' performances are evalu-
ated using correlation coefficients, PSNR, and SSIM,
computed with the test dataset consisting of 11 subjects.
Melanin and hemoglobin maps obtained from the
VISIA system, which are colored brown and red respec-
tively, are converted to grayscale for direct comparison.
To modify the pigment regions, either to enhance or alle-
viate them, the melanin and hemoglobin maps are multi-
plied by a constant. Similarly, the overall skin tone is
adjusted by adding a constant to the pigment maps.
The performance metrics of the three regression net-
works are presented in Table 1. For reference, we have
also included the simple regression network using a full-
sized image as input. This table reports the correlation
coefficients for the hemoglobin and melanin maps, as
well as the PSNR and SSIM for the reconstructed image.
4
|
DISCUSSION
Figure 4 compares the performance of the three regres-
sion networks to the VISIA system. Figure 4A shows the
change in correlation coefficients of melanin and hemo-
globin over the training epochs. It is observed that all
regression networks stabilize their correlation coefficients
after about 300 epochs. The optical approach-based
regression network exhibits relatively lower correlation
coefficient values and a wider standard deviation than
the other networks, particularly in melanin analysis. The
simple regression network and the optical-approach
based regression network yield similar coefficients, but
the integrated regression network presents a wider stan-
dard deviation in hemoglobin analysis. To evaluate the
similarity between the input and reconstructed images,
which indirectly reflects pigment analysis capability
during training, Figure 4B presents the changes in PSNR
and SSIM. These metrics validate whether the skin image
formation process is maintained when integrating the
ground truth during training. The simple regression
network is excluded from this comparison as its learning
structure does not encompass image formation.
Given that the incorporation of ground truth into the
optical approach-based learning structure requires sub-
stantial time to stabilize during training, we applied pre-
trained parameters for the integrated regression network,
resulting in higher initial performance compared to the
model trained solely with the optical approach. Even
after ground truth integration, the PSNR values consis-
tently exceed 30 dB. Such PSNR values suggest that the
reconstructed image closely resembles the input image,
making them difficult to distinguish by the human eye
[33, 34], which confirms the effective preservation of the
image formation process.
Table 1 presents a comparison of the regression net-
works' performance, including the simple regression
network with a full-sized input image as a reference. In
the simple regression network, the network using a full-
sized image exhibits a higher correlation coefficient for
hemoglobin than the network using a patch image, due
to the absence of patch combination issues that can arise
when combining patches. Nonetheless, training and
inferring on full-sized images demand significant mem-
ory capacity and computational resources, which restricts
the maximum image resolution. The optical approach-
based regression network mitigates this limitation by
using multiple patch images, although its correlation
coefficient for melanin is lower compared to the simple
regression network. This might be due to the challenge of
differentiating between skin darkness and shading, both
of which exhibit similar variations to melanin. However,
by referencing the ground truth, the correlation coeffi-
cient of melanin increases by 7.9% to 0.978 and hemoglo-
bin by 2.3% to 0.975, with both seeing a decrease in
standard deviation. This approach demonstrates slightly
higher correlation coefficients than the simple regression
network (full) but also presents wider standard devia-
tions,
indicating
a
trade-off
between
accuracy
and
consistency.
Figure 4C presents the melanin and hemoglobin
maps generated for the same input image. The overall
tendencies of the entire image appear to be similar, but
noticeable differences are observed in the enlarged
images presented in Figure 5. First, Figure 5A shows the
comparison
of
the
simple
regression
network
and
the integrated regression network. The simple regression
network generally exhibits consistent patch results, with
a
few
disparate
regions
appearing
after
merging.
8 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 9 =====
FIGURE 4
Comparison of the pigment analysis model trained with three different frameworks against the VISIA system: the simple
regression network, the optical approach-based regression network, and the integrated regression network. (A) Correlation coefficients
between the three networks and the VISIA system for (upper) hemoglobin and (lower) melanin maps. (B) (upper) PSNR and (lower) SSIM
between the reconstructed image and the input image. (C) Comparison of the resulting hemoglobin and melanin maps. The first column
presents the input image, followed by output maps from the VISIA system and the three networks in subsequent columns.
(D) Reconstructed images produced by altering the pigment maps from the integrated regression network. The upper row demonstrates
separate adjustments to the hemoglobin and melanin regions, maintaining the overall skin tone, while the lower row illustrates
modifications to the overall skin tone.
JUNG ET AL.
9 of 12
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 10 =====
Occasional variations in patch scale and boundary lines
are observed. In contrast, the integrated regression net-
work consistently generates the same results, regardless of
whether it processes local parts or the entire image at once,
a uniformity attributable to the application of consistent
light source and camera conditions across all pixels.
Figure 5B demonstrates the changes when incorporat-
ing ground truth into the optical approach-based learning
structure. The optical approach-based regression network
may produce local regions with saturated pixel values
below 0 or above 255 in some cases. Incorporation of
ground truth during training adjusts the overall scale of
the map, repositioning the previously saturated values
within the valid image range and recovering accurate
information, as depicted in the upper images. Further-
more, the previously blurred areas become clearer, and
the contrast is enhanced in the lower images. The
observed change suggests that the optical approach-based
regression network generates intermediate values for
ambiguous pixels, likely to prevent an increase in the loss
function, with the ground truth providing clear guidance
for these pixels.
In addition to its ability to analyze high-resolution
images, the integrated regression network offers the
advantage of generating modified skin images by manip-
ulating the pigment maps during the image formation
process, as shown in Figure 4D. By multiplying the pig-
ment maps by a constant, the values of the pigment
regions undergo significant changes, while the rest of
the image remains relatively unchanged. As a result,
the severity of the pigment regions can be modulated
while preserving the overall skin tone in the upper
images. Adding a constant to the pigment maps mod-
ifies the overall skin tone, as demonstrated in the
lower images. These pigment-modified images high-
light the versatility of the optical approach, which can
simulate post-treatment images and create pigment-
augmented datasets for pigment analysis or segmenta-
tion models.
In this study, the data were divided into training and
test datasets without validation dataset, primarily due to
two reasons. The first reason involves the discrepancy
between our evaluation criteria during training and after
training. During training, our focus is centered on the
FIGURE 5
Comparison of enlarged hemoglobin maps generated from the three regression networks. (A) Comparison of the simple
regression network and the integrated regression network (B) Comparison of the optical approach-based regression network and the
integrated regression network, focusing on the same regions of the same subjects.
TABLE 1
Performance of pigment analysis model trained with three different frameworks: the simple regression network (combining
multiple patches vs. full-sized image), optical approach-based network, and integrated regression network.
Hb (corr.)
Mel (corr.)
Recon. (PSNR)
Recon. (SSIM)
Simple regression (patches)
0.958 ± 0.052
0.977 ± 0.022
-
-
Simple regression (full)
0.971 ± 0.008
0.976 ± 0.005
-
-
Optical approach-based
0.953 ± 0.057
0.906 ± 0.125
39.411 ± 1.305
0.987 ± 0.003
Integrated regression
0.975 ± 0.027
0.978 ± 0.025
34.713 ± 1.330
0.981 ± 0.004
10 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 11 =====
network's
image
reconstruction
capability,
whereas
post-training evaluations compare the derived pigment
maps with the VISIA system. The second reason is due to
practical limitations in obtaining datasets of cross-
polarized images and analyzed results. Therefore, rather
than allocating resources to create a separate validation
set, we increased the ratio of the training dataset.
Undoubtedly, if the quantity of the dataset is sufficient,
establishing a validation set would be optimal.
A significant advantage of the proposed approach is
its versatility. While most skin analysis tools are depen-
dent on the image acquisition equipment of a specific
company, the same training framework and model archi-
tecture in our study can be applied to various types of
image acquisition equipment. The proposed approach
can be further enhanced by considering several strategies.
Firstly, a larger dataset could improve performance by
exposing the model to a wider variety of melanin and
hemoglobin combinations, thus enhancing its accuracy.
In this study, there was an additional benefit of dividing
the images into multiple patches, which increased the
size of the training dataset by a factor of 20. Additionally,
incorporating ground truth for the shading map using
image processing techniques could potentially enhance
the training process, similar to the way we incorporated
ground truth for pigments. From an application perspec-
tive, integrating an additional model to convert the colors
from any image acquisition conditions to those of the
training dataset would significantly increase the versatil-
ity of the proposed approach. Lastly, calibrating the scale
values using a precise contact-type clinical device could
yield more accurate and reliable measurements. These
future directions hold great promise for advancing the
proposed approach and expanding its applicability in var-
ious domains.
5
|
CONCLUSION
In this study, we introduced an integrated regression
method
that
combines
the
optical
approach
with
ground truth for pigment analysis. Our model over-
comes the limitations of the model's input size by divid-
ing images into multiple patches, enabling detailed
analysis. The incorporation of ground truth improves
the network's performance, leading to more accurate
pigment analysis results. Furthermore, the versatility of
the integrated regression network is demonstrated
through its ability to generate pigment-modified images
for various potential applications. We believe that with
further advancements and refinements, our proposed
approach will find wider applicability in dermatology
and beyond.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Geunho Jung was involved in writing the manuscript
and implemented a skin analysis model. Semin Kim
made technical contributions in implementing deep
learning models. Jongha Lee and Sangwook Yoo were
involved in preparing datasets and project manage-
ment. All authors contributed to reviewing the manu-
script. Geunho Jung is the corresponding author of this
paper.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported by National IT Industry Pro-
motion Agency (NIPA) for computing resources. The
research
dataset
was
supplied
by
Global
Medical
Research Center (GMRC, Republic of Korea), and the
IRB approval number is ”GIRB-21426-PD”.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT
The authors have no relevant financial interests in this
article and no potential conflicts of interest to disclose.
DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT
The data that support the findings of this study are avail-
able on request from the corresponding author. The data
are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical
restrictions.
ORCID
Geunho Jung
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4896-009X
REFERENCES
[1] G. Zonios, A. Dimou, I. Bassukas, D. Galaris, A. Tsolakidis, E.
Kaxiras, J. Biomed. Opt. 2008, 13, 014017.
[2] P. Agache, P. Humbert, Measuring the Skin, Springer Science
and Business Media, Berlin and Heinderberg, 2004.
[3] I. Saknite, S. Kwun, K. Zhang, A. Hood, F. Chen, L. Kangas, P.
Kortteisto,
A.
Kukkonen,
J.
Spigulis,
E.
R.
Tkaczyk,
J. Biophotonics 2023, 16, e202300009.
[4] G. N. Stamatas, B. Z. Zmudzka, N. Kollias, J. Z. Beer, Pigm.
Cell Res. 2004, 17, 618.
[5] L. E. Dolotov, Y. P. Sinichkin, V. V. Tuchin, S. R. Utz, G. B.
Altshuler, I. V. Yaroslavsky, Lasers Surg. Med. 2004, 34, 127.
[6] A. Treesirichod, S. Chansakulporn, P. Wattanapan, Indian
J. Dermatol. 2014, 59, 339.
[7] G. Zonios, J. Bykowski, N. Kollias, J. Invest. Dermatol. 2001,
117, 1452.
[8] Y. Zuo, A. Li, H. He, R. Wan, Y. Li, L. Li, Skin Res. Technol.
2022, 28, 846.
[9] Q. Marin, T. Honda, H. Nakajima, Y. Okano, M. Cherel, E.
Prestat-Marquis, Skin Res. Technol. 2022, 28, 582.
[10] N. Tsumura, H. Haneishi, Y. Miyake, Opt. Rev. 2000, 7, 479.
[11] S.-H. Tseng, P. Bargo, A. Durkin, N. Kollias, Opt. Express 2009,
17, 14599.
[12] H. M. Son, W. Jeon, J. Kim, C. Y. Heo, H. J. Yoon, J.-U. Park,
T.-M. Chung, Sci. Rep. 2021, 11, 5350.
JUNG ET AL.
11 of 12
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

===== PAGE 12 =====
[13] Qian Zheng, Ankur Purwar, Heng Zhao, Guang Liang Lim,
Ling Li, Debasish Behera, Qian Wang, Min Tan, Rizhao Cai,
Jennifer Werner, Dennis Sng, Maurice van Steensel, Weisi
Lin, Alex C. Kot, arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.16056 2022.
[14] M. Kim, M. H. Song, Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 989.
[15] G. Jung, S. Kim, J. Lee, S. Yoo, J. Biomed.Opt. 2023, 28, 035001.
[16] D. Jha, P. H. Smedsrud, M. A. Riegler, D. Johansen, T. De
Lange, P. Halvorsen, H. D. Johansen, 2019 IEEE International
Symposium on Multimedia (ISM), IEEE, San Diego, CA, 2019,
p. 225.
[17] Sarah
Alotaibi,
William
Smith,
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:
1908.10578. 2019.
[18] X. Chang, J. Wang, W. Yang, Y. Lei, Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, 2021,
p. 1192.
[19] J. Feng, Q. Sun, Z. Li, Z. Sun, K. Jia, J. Biomed. Opt. 2019, 24,
051407.
[20] X. Wang, X. Shu, Z. Li, W. Huo, L. Zou, Y. Tang, L. Li, Skin
Res. Technol. 2018, 24, 379.
[21] Lisa Kobayashi Frisk 2016.
[22] M. Doi, S. Tominaga, Color Imaging VIII: Processing, Hard-
copy, and Applications, SPIE, Bellingham, WA, 2003, p. 221.
[23] A. Krishnaswamy, G. V. G. Baranoski, Computer Graphics
Forum, Vol. 23, Wiley Online Library, Hoboken, NJ, 2004,
p. 331.
[24] M. A. Ansari, R. Massudi, Opt. Lasers Eng. 2009, 47, 965.
[25] S. L. Jacques, R. D. Glickman, J. A. Schwartz, Laser-Tissue
Interaction VII, SPIE, Bellingham, WA, 1996, p. 468.
[26] SL Jacques, Skin Optics. Oregon Medical Laser Center
News, 1998.
[27] S. Bianco, F. Gasparini, A. Russo, R. Schettini, IEEE Trans.
Consum. Electron. 2007, 53, 1020.
[28] R. Demirli, P. Otto, R. Viswanathan, S. Patwardhan, J. Larkey,
Canfield Systems White Paper 2007, 1, 1.
[29] A. Goldsberry, C. W. Hanke, K. E. Hanke, J. Drugs Dermatol
JDD 2014, 13, 1312.
[30] A. Buslaev, V. I. Iglovikov, E. Khvedchenya, A. Parinov, M.
Druzhinin, A. A. Kalinin, Information 2020, 11, 2.
[31] J. Jiang, D. Liu, G. Jinwei, S. Süsstrunk, IEEE Workshop on
Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), Vol. 2013, IEEE, Los
Alamitos, CA, 2013, p. 168.
[32] M.-T. Puth, M. Neuhäuser, G. D. Ruxton, Anim. Behav. 2014,
93, 183.
[33] X. Zeng, L. Ping, Z. Li, J. Multimedia 2009, 4, 3.
[34] C.-C. Lee, W. Hsien-Chu, C.-S. Tsai, Y.-P. Chu, Pattern Recog-
nit. 2008, 41, 2097.
How to cite this article: G. Jung, S. Kim, J. Lee,
S. Yoo, J. Biophotonics 2023, 16(12), e202300231.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.202300231
12 of 12
JUNG ET AL.
 18640648, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jbio.202300231 by Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Wiley Online Library on [06/09/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
